wg-node-identity: add working group charter and registration (#9028)
kubernetes/community: wg-node-identity/charter.md

### In Scope

- Defining terms such as a Kubernetes-native node attestation that allows kubelets to prove their identity to the control plane using platform-provided attestation (TPM, vTPM, cloud instance identity documents, or similar mechanisms)
- Define use cases for Kubernetes users that address the heterogeneity of environments.
- Determining which common features (e.g. TPM attestation) can be covered by APIs.
- Propose new sub-projects if existing sub-projects are not sufficient.
- Producing a threat model for the node identity lifecycle covering bootstrap, certificate rotation, and node impersonation attacks

### Out of Scope

- Developing any node attestation mechanism outside of the ownership of a sponsoring SIG.
- Long term ownership of cloud provider-specific implementations of attestation verifiers
- Workload identity (existing solutions exist)

> - Removal of bootstrap token support — bootstrap tokens will remain available as a fallback, but attestation should be the default for distributions that support it

Reviewer: unlikely for the kubeadm team to agree on that.
the regular k8s user doesn't care about atestation.

Reviewer 2: @neolit123 Please note this is in the out of scope section. We DON'T want to remove it.

Maybe we can word it like this?
```suggestion
- Removal of bootstrap token support — bootstrap tokens will continue to remain available
```

Reviewer 3: minor nit, regardless i like the abbreviated version.

`bootstrap tokens will continue to remain available`

## Deliverables

* An accepted KEP and sponsoring SIG
* A common threat model applicable to multiple cluster lifecycle management tools, clouds, virtualized environments and bare metal.
* Provide  a space for collaboration across cloud providers and practitioners to determine common, viable features that should be supported by Kubernetes SIGs. Given consensus in one or more ideas, the WG will facilitate and coordinate the delivery of proposals in the appropriate areas with owning SIGs.

## Stakeholders

* SIG Node
* SIG Cluster Lifecycle
* SIG Autoscaling
* SIG Cloud Provider

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Stakeholders

Sponsoring SIGs:

* SIG Cluster Lifecycle

Participating SIGs:

* SIG Node
* SIG Cloud Provider
* SIG Autoscaling
```

Reviewer 3: +1

Reviewer 5: Naively: I would expect SIG Auth as a sponsoring SIG?

Reviewer 6: @BenTheElder I tried to explain to SIG Auth, but they said they think the problem is mostly solved, but if we find  specific things that are missing they will try to help on those specific topics. (or at least that is my understanding after the discussion).

Reviewer: i think SIG Auth must be in participating SIGs at minimum.
if this WG wants to make core changes they must be an code-owning (sponsoring) SIG.

also  note that from the last SIG Auth meeting, @ahmedtd said that he wants to join the WG a propose a built-in TPM attestation in k8s.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AwW88c_82hZOjls_0P7c4Q9MCt53SzyD1adBxfFj7FE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.b0o2envw3c9m

### Steering Committee Liaison

- TBD (assigned after approval)

## Exit Criteria

This WG will disband when its deliverables are complete

1. Completed definitions and key use cases for cluster owners and lifecycle management implementations, documented and committed.
2. Key common features that Kubernetes or a sub-project needs to best support the defined use cases.
3. For each feature in the list, proposals/KEPs which support them are made to the relevant sub-project OR propose new sub-projects if deemed necessary. The KEPs must move to Accepted as a condition of exit.

### Alternative Exit Paths

- **Early exit**: If the WG determines during Phase 1 that node attestation cannot be securely implemented within the existing Kubernetes certificate infrastructure without unacceptable complexity, it will publish findings and recommendations and disband
- **Partial exit**: If the security review identifies fundamental issues with moving attestation into core or a subproject, the WG will document the findings and recommend that attestation remain an out-of-tree extension point

### Progress Reporting

- Annual reports to the steering committee (due by 1 March)

> - Quarterly updates to sponsoring SIG mailing lists (sig-node@, sig-cluster-lifecycle@, @sig-cloud-provider)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Quarterly updates to sponsoring and participating SIG mailing lists (sig-cluster-lifecycle@, sig-node@, sig-cloud-provider@, sig-autoscaling@)
```

## Deliverables

* An accepted KEP and sponsoring SIG
* A common threat model applicable to multiple cluster lifecycle management tools, clouds, virtualized environments and bare metal.
* Provide  a space for collaboration across cloud providers and practitioners to determine common, viable features that should be supported by Kubernetes SIGs. Given consensus in one or more ideas, the WG will facilitate and coordinate the delivery of proposals in the appropriate areas with owning SIGs.

## Stakeholders

* SIG Auth
* SIG Node
* SIG Cluster Lifecycle
* SIG Autoscaling
* SIG Cloud Provider

## Roles and Organization Management

This WG adheres to the Roles and Organization Management outlined in [wg-governance](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md) and opts-in to updates and calculation of the [Conditions for Disbanding](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md#disbanding).

### Chairs

- Rodrigo Campos Catelin (@rata)
- Ciprian Hacman (@hakman)
- Naadir Jeewa (@randomvariable)
- Michael McCune (@elmiko)

> - Josephine Pfeiffer (@pfeifferj)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Josephine Pfeiffer (@pfeifferj)
- Taahir Ahmed (@ahmedtd)
```

- Propose new sub-projects if existing sub-projects are not sufficient.
- Producing a threat model for the node identity lifecycle covering bootstrap, certificate rotation, and node impersonation attacks

### Out of Scope

- Developing any node attestation mechanism outside of the ownership of a sponsoring SIG.
- Long term ownership of cloud provider-specific implementations of attestation verifiers
- Workload identity (existing solutions exist)
- Removal of bootstrap token support — bootstrap tokens will continue to remain available

## Deliverables

* An accepted KEP and sponsoring SIG
* A common threat model applicable to multiple cluster lifecycle management tools, clouds, virtualized environments and bare metal.
* Provide  a space for collaboration across cloud providers and practitioners to determine common, viable features that should be supported by Kubernetes SIGs. Given consensus in one or more ideas, the WG will facilitate and coordinate the delivery of proposals in the appropriate areas with owning SIGs.

## Stakeholders

Sponsoring SIGs:

* SIG Cluster Lifecycle

Participating SIGs:

* SIG Node
* SIG Cloud Provider

> * SIG Autoscaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SIG Autoscaling
* SIG Auth
```

still missing?

Reviewer 3: updated

> * SIG Autoscaling

Reviewer: we met again today in the SIG CL meeting and discussed this list:

```suggestion
Sponsoring SIGs:

* SIG Autoscaling
* SIG Cloud Provider
* SIG Cluster Lifecycle

Participating SIGs:

* SIG Auth 
* SIG Node

```

Reviewer 3: updated to set stakeholders.
